0: ÖĞRENCİ BİLGİLERİ (Student’ Information):
2: Adı Soyadı (Name Surname): Abdelrahman Walid Hamza Mohamed Elsayed Sabee
4: No (Number): 2433095024
6: Anabilim Dalı (Department): Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation
8: Program Adı (Program): Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Master's Degree Program with Thesis
10: Danışmanı (Advisor): Asst. Prof. Begüm Kara Kaya
12: ☒TEZ KONUSU ÖNERİSİ (THESIS TOPIC PROPOSAL):
14: Tezin Başlığı /Adı (Thesis Title/Name):
16: Immediate Effects of PETTLEP-Based AOMI on Upper Limb Kinematics in Stroke Survivors: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
19: Tezin Konusu ve Amacı 
20: (Thesis’s Subject and Purpose): 
22: Stroke is the third leading cause of adult disability globally, and long-term motor, muscle tone and upper limb function control and coordination impairment in patients is common (1). These deficits are largely attributable to disruption of the production of effective motor commands due to injury to the cortical and subcortical motor systems. As a result, pathological movement patterns with jerky trajectories (lack of smoothness) are rather typical after stroke and patients compensate with maladaptive strategies, such as moving the trunk or elevating the shoulder to overcome weakness. (2,3). Thus, current rehabilitation is directed not only toward regaining function but also toward enhancing the quality of functional performance and reducing the secondary complications. 
24: In conventional treatments, emphasis is put on task practice; but a large number of stroke survivors, particularly those with severe hemiplegia, cannot generate the voluntary motor output required to participate in such training (4).Here, Motor Imagery (MI) - a cognitive simulation of a motor command in the absence of physical movement - takes a relevant place. MI taps into that same neural substrate that we use for motor planning as well as for physical execution, and as such, may be considered a technique for improving the "internal model" of movement (4, 5). New evidence suggests that combining MI with AO and sensory priming (the AOMI protocol) represents even more support for the motor plan than MI alone. Observing a smooth movement and then rehearsing it mentally enables the patient to activate neuronal circuits linked to trajectory planning, which in turn might enable a more fluid and successful performance.(6)
26: But the quality and rigor of the mental simulation in MI will determine how powerful it will be. To increase the similarity of neural substrates between executed and imagined actions, the PETTLEP (Physical, Environment, Task, Timing, Learning, Emotion, Perspective) model was introduced as an applied model in line with the hypothesis of “functional equivalence”. This model postulates the hypothesized link that for MI to effectively induce neuroplastic changes, the imagined and physical states should be tightly coupled, thinking in real-time (Timing) and from first-person perspective (Perspective). Implementing AOMI under the PETTLEP principles will guarantee that the protocol stimulation production will be participant-driven and not a cognitive task to be performed by the participant himself but as a pragmatic support that will stimulate the motor pathways related to recovering the mobility (7).
29: For this purpose, the integration of OpenCap, a recently developed markerless motion capture system that utilizes artificial intelligence to enable accurate clinical quantification of three‐dimensional (3D) kinematic measures, is introduced (8). Hence, by quantifying objectively parameters of motion, such as movement smoothness, trunk displacement and Shoulder Girdle Elevation we can quantify the "how" of a movement, which is an important mediator between central neural planning and peripheral motor execution (8). Furthermore, the combination of this kinematic analysis with the Box and Block Test (BBT) allows to relate the quality of movement with functional dexterity in everyday life (9).
31: Therefore, the expectation of this study is to fill a critical gap in neuro-rehabilitation literature. Using OpenCap technology in combination with a customized PETTLEP based AOMI protocol, this study seeks to investigate whether specific mental practice can lead to measurable short-term changes in movement smoothness, compensatory strategies and functional dexterity in persons post-stroke. 
33: Keywords: Motor imagery, action observation, stroke, OpenCap, kinematics, upper limb rehabilitation.
37: Research Question
39: Does one session of PETTLEP based AOMI lead to immediate improvements in movement smoothness, trunk compensation, Shoulder Girdle Elevation , and gross manual dexterity of the affected upper limb in stroke survivors compared to a cognitive & somatic control?
41: Hypotheses
43: H₀: One session of PETTLEP based AOMI will not lead to significant changes in kinematic parameters (movement smoothness, Trunk Displacement, Shoulder Girdle Elevation) or gross manual dexterity (Box and Block Test) of the paretic upper extremity in individuals post stroke as compared to the control group. 
45: H₁: One session of PETTLEP based AOMI leads to significant changes in kinematic parameters (movement smoothness, Trunk Displacement, Shoulder Girdle Elevation) or gross manual dexterity (Box and Block Test) of the paretic upper extremity in individuals post stroke as compared to the control group. 
47: Materyal ve Metot (Materials and Methods) :
49: Study Design
51: In this study, a single blind, pretest–posttest, prospective randomized controlled trial (RCT) design will be employed, involving two conditions (experimental condition: PETTLEP based AOMI; control condition: cognitive and somatic control). Study Design: The trial will follow a two arm structure (experimental group: PETTLEP based AOMI; control group: cognitive and somatic control), implemented as a single blind, pretest–posttest, prospective randomized controlled study (RCT). This study aims to preliminarily investigate the effect of a single session PETTLEP based AOMI task, delivered through markerless motion capture, on the kinematics and functional performance of the affected upper limb in individuals with stroke. The study will commence after obtaining approval from the Istinye University Institutional Ethics Committee, and informed consent will be obtained from all participants. The total duration of the study—including participant recruitment, data collection, and data analysis—is proposed as 12 months after obtaining ethical committee approval.
53: Sample Size and Randomization:
55: A priori power analysis was conducted by using G*Power 3.1.9.2 for a 2 (Group: Motor Imagery vs. Control) × 2 (Time: Pre vs. Post) repeated measures ANOVA. An effect size of f = 0.40 (Cohen’s d ≈ 1.2) was used as reference according to results from a comparable acute motor imagery study. Yet,“given the acute, single session design of the present study, this assumption on effect size is rather optimistic.” To maintain adequate power (1 − β = 0.95) at α = 0.05, a total sample size of N = 24 (12 subjects per group) is required to achieve a significant group × time interaction effect before the onset of the study. To compensate for a possible dropout and/or non-normal data distribution, the desired sample size was scaled up by 15 % resulting in a recruitment goal of 28 participants (14 per group) [10].
57: Participants will be randomized to the motor imagery or control group on a 1:1 basis by using permuted-block randomization, stratified with concealment. The stratification criteria include (i) sex = male or female, and (ii) the affected upper limb spasticity severity as evaluated by the Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS) into two groups, mild with (MAS 0–1+) and moderate with (MAS 2–3). An independent investigator will produce a randomization list with variable block sizes of 4 to 6 for each stratum using a computerized randomization tool to maintain balance and unpredictability. The allocation will be concealed in sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes, prepared by someone not directly involved in the recruitment. If there are not sufficient participants to complete a block within a stratum, then the last participant(s) in that stratum will be randomly allocated to complete the block in order to maintain feasibility and minimize imbalance.
59: Participants:
61: A total of 28 stroke patients (14 people in each group) who meet the criteria for inclusion will be included in the study and divided into two groups by randomised method.
63: The study population consists of stroke patients who were admitted or followed up at the Neurorehabilitation Clinic of Istinye University liv Bahçeşehir Hospital, Istanbul, Türkiye. Participants will be recruited through voluntary participation after screening by a neurologist and physiotherapist to determine eligibility.
65: The study will be fully explained to the subjects, and they will be required to sign a consent form prior to enrolment. Recruitment will commence after approval by the ethics committee and continue until the required sample size has been obtained. 
67: Inclusion Criteria
69: Female and male adults aged 40 to 80 years with a diagnosis of unilateral ischemic or hemorrhagic.
71: Residual voluntary movement activity of the affected upper limb.
73: Mild to moderate spasticity (MAS ≤ 3).
75: Adequate cognitive function to understand and follow verbal instructions (MMSE ≥ 21).
77: medically stable patients, with no active or uncontrolled systemic illness.
79: The participants should be able to sit unsupported for at least 30 min and be able to perform brief cognitive-motor exercises.
81: Exclusion Criteria
83: Other central nervous system disorders (Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, traumatic brain injury).
85: Musculoskeletal or orthopedic conditions causing restriction of movement in the upper-limb (such as fixed contractures, severe joint deformities, shoulder subluxation).
87: Severe sensory deprivation, visual neglect, or inattention that interferes with completion of the task or the ability to engage in motor imagery.
89: Uncontrolled seizures, severe cardiovascular instability, or any other contraindication to imagery.
92:  Assessments:
94:  To ensure reliability and consistency, the environmental condition will be standardized for all evaluations, which are going to be performed in the Neurorehabilitation unit of Istinye University Liv Bahçeşehir Hospital. All participants will be tested at 2 time points—once immediately before and once immediately after the session. This pre-post test design enables the identification of short-term modifications in (movement smoothness, Trunk Displacement, Shoulder Girdle Elevation) following motor imagery and a control task.
96: To minimize inter-rater variability, one physiotherapist at each centre will conduct the evaluations. 
98: Standardization of Experimental Conditions: Subjects in the present study will receive the same top to wear which is a long-sleeve, dark purple shirt (part of their regular training outfit).Braids/ponytails must be so secured as to allow for unobstructed neck and shoulder markers to be seen by the camera(s). The test parameters (chair and table height and distance between the subject and target) will be standardized and kept constant for each participant during the pre- and post-test sessions. Participants will be requested not to participate in any other upper-limb rehabilitative therapy on the day of the testing session to avoid any confounding immediate effects of training.  
100: Description of Task: To prevent attentional bias, the Verbal instruction for the Reach-to-Grasp is verbally presented from the same standardized script. Participants are invited to participate in three trials per each point of assessment (pre and post), which are recorded. They will be instructed to reach for the object at a pace that feels natural to them (comfortable speed of movement) and will not receive any specific instructions to go either "fast" or "slow", this is to catch their habitual movement behavior. 
102: Data Collection Setup: To evaluate immediate kinematic modifications, recordings will be taken prior to and immediately following the single training session. (iPhone 14 Pro max & iPhone XS max) will be used for all participants to ensure sensor consistency. The cameras will be mounted on tripods at a fixed height and placed at 45° angles (one anterior-lateral and one posterior-lateral) relative to the participant, at a standardized distance of 1.5 m to 2.0 m.