ÖĞRENCİ BİLGİLERİ (Student’ Information):

Adı Soyadı (Name Surname): Abdelrahman Walid Hamza Mohamed Elsayed Sabee

No (Number): 2433095024

Anabilim Dalı (Department): Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation

Program Adı (Program): Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Master's Degree Program with Thesis

Danışmanı (Advisor): Asst. Prof. Begüm Kara Kaya

☒TEZ KONUSU ÖNERİSİ (THESIS TOPIC PROPOSAL):

Tezin Başlığı /Adı (Thesis Title/Name):

Immediate Effects of PETTLEP-Based AOMI on Upper Limb Kinematics in Stroke Survivors: A Randomized Controlled Trial.


Tezin Konusu ve Amacı 
(Thesis’s Subject and Purpose): 

Stroke is the third leading cause of adult disability globally, and long-term motor, muscle tone and upper limb function control and coordination impairment in patients is common (1). These deficits are largely attributable to disruption of the production of effective motor commands due to injury to the cortical and subcortical motor systems. As a result, pathological movement patterns with jerky trajectories (lack of smoothness) are rather typical after stroke and patients compensate with maladaptive strategies, such as moving the trunk or elevating the shoulder to overcome weakness. (2,3). Thus, current rehabilitation is directed not only toward regaining function but also toward enhancing the quality of functional performance and reducing the secondary complications. 

In conventional treatments, emphasis is put on task practice; but a large number of stroke survivors, particularly those with severe hemiplegia, cannot generate the voluntary motor output required to participate in such training (4).Here, Motor Imagery (MI) - a cognitive simulation of a motor command in the absence of physical movement - takes a relevant place. MI taps into that same neural substrate that we use for motor planning as well as for physical execution, and as such, may be considered a technique for improving the "internal model" of movement (4, 5). New evidence suggests that combining MI with AO and sensory priming (the AOMI protocol) represents even more support for the motor plan than MI alone. Observing a smooth movement and then rehearsing it mentally enables the patient to activate neuronal circuits linked to trajectory planning, which in turn might enable a more fluid and successful performance.(6)

But the quality and rigor of the mental simulation in MI will determine how powerful it will be. To increase the similarity of neural substrates between executed and imagined actions, the PETTLEP (Physical, Environment, Task, Timing, Learning, Emotion, Perspective) model was introduced as an applied model in line with the hypothesis of “functional equivalence”. This model postulates the hypothesized link that for MI to effectively induce neuroplastic changes, the imagined and physical states should be tightly coupled, thinking in real-time (Timing) and from first-person perspective (Perspective). Implementing AOMI under the PETTLEP principles will guarantee that the protocol stimulation production will be participant-driven and not a cognitive task to be performed by the participant himself but as a pragmatic support that will stimulate the motor pathways related to recovering the mobility (7).


For this purpose, the integration of OpenCap, a recently developed markerless motion capture system that utilizes artificial intelligence to enable accurate clinical quantification of three‐dimensional (3D) kinematic measures, is introduced (8). Hence, by quantifying objectively parameters of motion, such as movement smoothness, trunk displacement and Shoulder Girdle Elevation we can quantify the "how" of a movement, which is an important mediator between central neural planning and peripheral motor execution (8). Furthermore, the combination of this kinematic analysis with the Box and Block Test (BBT) allows to relate the quality of movement with functional dexterity in everyday life (9).

Therefore, the expectation of this study is to fill a critical gap in neuro-rehabilitation literature. Using OpenCap technology in combination with a customized PETTLEP based AOMI protocol, this study seeks to investigate whether specific mental practice can lead to measurable short-term changes in movement smoothness, compensatory strategies and functional dexterity in persons post-stroke. 

Keywords: Motor imagery, action observation, stroke, OpenCap, kinematics, upper limb rehabilitation.

 

Research Question

Does one session of PETTLEP based AOMI lead to immediate improvements in movement smoothness, trunk compensation, Shoulder Girdle Elevation , and gross manual dexterity of the affected upper limb in stroke survivors compared to a cognitive & somatic control?

Hypotheses

H₀: One session of PETTLEP based AOMI will not lead to significant changes in kinematic parameters (movement smoothness, Trunk Displacement, Shoulder Girdle Elevation) or gross manual dexterity (Box and Block Test) of the paretic upper extremity in individuals post stroke as compared to the control group. 

H₁: One session of PETTLEP based AOMI leads to significant changes in kinematic parameters (movement smoothness, Trunk Displacement, Shoulder Girdle Elevation) or gross manual dexterity (Box and Block Test) of the paretic upper extremity in individuals post stroke as compared to the control group. 

Materyal ve Metot (Materials and Methods) :

Study Design

In this study, a single blind, pretest–posttest, prospective randomized controlled trial (RCT) design will be employed, involving two conditions (experimental condition: PETTLEP based AOMI; control condition: cognitive and somatic control). Study Design: The trial will follow a two arm structure (experimental group: PETTLEP based AOMI; control group: cognitive and somatic control), implemented as a single blind, pretest–posttest, prospective randomized controlled study (RCT). This study aims to preliminarily investigate the effect of a single session PETTLEP based AOMI task, delivered through markerless motion capture, on the kinematics and functional performance of the affected upper limb in individuals with stroke. The study will commence after obtaining approval from the Istinye University Institutional Ethics Committee, and informed consent will be obtained from all participants. The total duration of the study—including participant recruitment, data collection, and data analysis—is proposed as 12 months after obtaining ethical committee approval.

Sample Size and Randomization:

A priori power analysis was conducted by using G*Power 3.1.9.2 for a 2 (Group: Motor Imagery vs. Control) × 2 (Time: Pre vs. Post) repeated measures ANOVA. An effect size of f = 0.40 (Cohen’s d ≈ 1.2) was used as reference according to results from a comparable acute motor imagery study. Yet,“given the acute, single session design of the present study, this assumption on effect size is rather optimistic.” To maintain adequate power (1 − β = 0.95) at α = 0.05, a total sample size of N = 24 (12 subjects per group) is required to achieve a significant group × time interaction effect before the onset of the study. To compensate for a possible dropout and/or non-normal data distribution, the desired sample size was scaled up by 15 % resulting in a recruitment goal of 28 participants (14 per group) [10].

Participants will be randomized to the motor imagery or control group on a 1:1 basis by using permuted-block randomization, stratified with concealment. The stratification criteria include (i) sex = male or female, and (ii) the affected upper limb spasticity severity as evaluated by the Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS) into two groups, mild with (MAS 0–1+) and moderate with (MAS 2–3). An independent investigator will produce a randomization list with variable block sizes of 4 to 6 for each stratum using a computerized randomization tool to maintain balance and unpredictability. The allocation will be concealed in sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes, prepared by someone not directly involved in the recruitment. If there are not sufficient participants to complete a block within a stratum, then the last participant(s) in that stratum will be randomly allocated to complete the block in order to maintain feasibility and minimize imbalance.

Participants:

A total of 28 stroke patients (14 people in each group) who meet the criteria for inclusion will be included in the study and divided into two groups by randomised method.

The study population consists of stroke patients who were admitted or followed up at the Neurorehabilitation Clinic of Istinye University liv Bahçeşehir Hospital, Istanbul, Türkiye. Participants will be recruited through voluntary participation after screening by a neurologist and physiotherapist to determine eligibility.

The study will be fully explained to the subjects, and they will be required to sign a consent form prior to enrolment. Recruitment will commence after approval by the ethics committee and continue until the required sample size has been obtained. 

Inclusion Criteria

Female and male adults aged 40 to 80 years with a diagnosis of unilateral ischemic or hemorrhagic.

Residual voluntary movement activity of the affected upper limb.

Mild to moderate spasticity (MAS ≤ 3).

Adequate cognitive function to understand and follow verbal instructions (MMSE ≥ 21).

medically stable patients, with no active or uncontrolled systemic illness.

The participants should be able to sit unsupported for at least 30 min and be able to perform brief cognitive-motor exercises.

Exclusion Criteria

Other central nervous system disorders (Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, traumatic brain injury).

Musculoskeletal or orthopedic conditions causing restriction of movement in the upper-limb (such as fixed contractures, severe joint deformities, shoulder subluxation).

Severe sensory deprivation, visual neglect, or inattention that interferes with completion of the task or the ability to engage in motor imagery.

Uncontrolled seizures, severe cardiovascular instability, or any other contraindication to imagery.


 Assessments:

 To ensure reliability and consistency, the environmental condition will be standardized for all evaluations, which are going to be performed in the Neurorehabilitation unit of Istinye University Liv Bahçeşehir Hospital. All participants will be tested at 2 time points—once immediately before and once immediately after the session. This pre-post test design enables the identification of short-term modifications in (movement smoothness, Trunk Displacement, Shoulder Girdle Elevation) following motor imagery and a control task.

To minimize inter-rater variability, one physiotherapist at each centre will conduct the evaluations. 

Standardization of Experimental Conditions: Subjects in the present study will receive the same top to wear which is a long-sleeve, dark purple shirt (part of their regular training outfit).Braids/ponytails must be so secured as to allow for unobstructed neck and shoulder markers to be seen by the camera(s). The test parameters (chair and table height and distance between the subject and target) will be standardized and kept constant for each participant during the pre- and post-test sessions. Participants will be requested not to participate in any other upper-limb rehabilitative therapy on the day of the testing session to avoid any confounding immediate effects of training.  

Description of Task: To prevent attentional bias, the Verbal instruction for the Reach-to-Grasp is verbally presented from the same standardized script. Participants are invited to participate in three trials per each point of assessment (pre and post), which are recorded. They will be instructed to reach for the object at a pace that feels natural to them (comfortable speed of movement) and will not receive any specific instructions to go either "fast" or "slow", this is to catch their habitual movement behavior. 

Data Collection Setup: To evaluate immediate kinematic modifications, recordings will be taken prior to and immediately following the single training session. (iPhone 14 Pro max & iPhone XS max) will be used for all participants to ensure sensor consistency. The cameras will be mounted on tripods at a fixed height and placed at 45° angles (one anterior-lateral and one posterior-lateral) relative to the participant, at a standardized distance of 1.5 m to 2.0 m.

The cameras will be configured to record at 1080p resolution and 60 frames per second (fps). Recordings will be conducted in a room with consistent, diffuse lighting to avoid backlighting or shadows that could interfere with AI tracking. The same OpenCap model and processing parameters will be used for all participant analyses to ensure data comparability.


The video data is processed by uploading the video to the OpenCap cloud platform to obtain 3D OpenSim musculoskeletal models. The following specific kinematic measures will be computed according to their functional importance (8).



Primary Outcomes:

·     The primary outcome of this study is the change in movement smoothness of the affected upper limb, as measured by the OpenCap System. Instead of classic marker-based motion capture systems, OpenCap derives 3D human movement dynamics from videos taken with smartphones. The video will be processed by submitting the video to the OpenCap cloud platform to generate 3D OpenSim musculoskeletal models. Due to their functional meaning, the following specific kinematic parameters will be derived from the curves (8) .

·     Movement Smoothness (Number of Velocity Peaks - NVP): Calculated from the hand marker (3rd Metacarpal head) velocity profile. One smooth movement is usually made up of one accelerating and one decelerating phase. Increase in velocity peaks means segmentation of movement (the movement becomes more jerk like) due to loss of motor control. Reduction in NVP will be interpreted as increased movement smoothness. 


Secondary Outcomes:

• Shoulder Girdle Elevation (Compensatory Strategy)

o Purpose: To measure this as a compensatory strategy; the markerless capture system tracks surface anatomical landmarks.

o Measurement Method: Calculated by measuring the relative vertical (Y axis) displacement of the Shoulder marker with respect to the Neck marker during movement.

 
Trunk Displacement (Compensatory Strategy)

o Purpose: To quantify the extent to which the patient resorts to “trunk lean” to compensate for reduced arm length. The aim is to determine whether the patient is actually moving the upper limb or compensating using the trunk. This variable is expressed not as an absolute biomechanical value, but as an indicator of compensatory strategy quality.

o Measurement Method: Calculated by measuring the change in the Lumbar Extension angle (lower back extension) in the sagittal plane during the reaching phase, obtained from the OpenSim kinematic model.


The OpenCap system has been made available to all researchers by its developers (Stanford University) as an open-source and web-based platform for use in scientific research; therefore, specific author permission is not required for its use [8].


Gross Manual Dexterity — Box and Block Test (BBT):

o Purpose:To assess if enhancements in kinematics result in real functional benefits in activities of daily living (ADL).

o Measurement Method:
-     The patient is sitting at a wooden box split into two sections holding 150 wooden blocks (2.5 cm).

-     Using their affected hand, they are asked to move as many blocks as they can from one side to the other in 60 seconds.

-     The Score is the number of blocks moved successfully. (9).


It is a standard clinical tool universally used in rehabilitation literature to assess manual dexterity. It is not a proprietary scale subject to the permission of a copyright holder; as it is open for general use, author permission is not required.

Pain — Visual Analog Scale (VAS)

o Purpose:To evaluate pain intensity in an affected upper limb and pain perception changes in the short term to monitor the safety of the intervention.

o Measurement Method: Participants indicate their pain intensity by placing a mark on a 10-cm horizontal line. The left side is labeled "no pain" (0) and the right side is labeled "worst pain imaginable" (11).

 
It is a fundamental and standard clinical measurement method used in pain assessment. As it is considered part of general clinical practice (public domain), no author or copyright permission is required for its use.


Movement Imagery Ability — Movement Imagery Questionnaire-3 (MIQ-3)

o Purpose: To evaluate the participant's capacity for movement imagery within three subscales: Kinesthetic, Internal Visual and External Visual.

o Measurement Method: The validated Turkish adaptation of the MIQ-3 will be applied to maintain linguistic accuracy and process of validation for local culture. The patient is directed to perform or watch a number of basic movements and then asked to visualize them. Then, they evaluate the vividness of this imagery on a Likert scale (with higher scores signifying greater vividness).(12,13).


The necessary written permission for use has been obtained from the author who conducted the Turkish validity and reliability study of the MIQ-3 used in this study.


Intervention:

The intervention protocol is developed based on the PETTLEP-based Motor Imagery (MI) protocol along with Action Observation (AO) and Physical Practice (AOMI). The study procedure includes the three following consecutive phases: pre-evaluation, treatment, and post evaluation. The intervention stage lasts for 25 min. 

1. Baseline Assessment: After the system calibration, active 3 runs of a routine Reach-to-Grasp task will be performed by each subject. Their movement kinematics will be recorded using the OpenCap system (pre-intervention movement quality: Movement Smoothness and Trunk Displacement) to capture.

2.Intervention Phase: Participants are iIs were randomly assigned to the Experimental or Control groups. Both groups performthree Blocks (~7 minutes per Block) with short pauses in between.

Experimental Group (Interleaved AOMI): 
Participants will follow a “Scaffolded” protocol the 1:3 Ratio (Physical-to-Mental) which is the optimal way to learn without experiencing fatigue. Inside each block, that following loop runs:

• Sensory Priming: participants hold the object to be encoded in terms of sensory information (texture/weight). )

• Action Observation: Visual monitoring of a 1st-person video of the task execution in real-time.

• Motor Imagery (Selective & CI): The subject closes the eyes and imagines executing the movement with 2 specific constraints:

• Smoothness Constraint: “Pretend the cup is filled with water to the brim.  Move smoothly so you don’t spill a drop.”

• Trunk Control Modification: “Just pretend your back is heavy and stuck to the lounge chair. Reach Only with Your Arm, Keep Silenceto Spine (KISS).” ( targeting Inhibition of compensatory trunk movement )." 

• Shoulder Stability Constraint: “Pretend your shoulder is relaxed and heavy. Keep it down away from your ear as you are reaching.” (That’s for the “inhibition of Shoulder Girdle Elevation”).

• Physical Performance: After one physical trial for every three mental trials, participants are able to accurately adapt their internal model as a result of veridical feedback.

Intervention:

To stay consistent with the levels of the PETTLEP model, imagery instructions will be provided via standardized verbal scripts.. Mental Chronometry will be routinely monitored during the session; the duration of the imagined movement must be equal to that of the executed movement ± 25%. Should a trial fall outside of this range, it is to be repeated. The supervisor physiotherapist will uphold the strict 1:3 ratio of physical- to mental-practice to preserve the specific dose of the intervention. 

B. Control Condition (Cognitive and Somatic Control):

Those that should leave are also following the protocolexpected, timed and paired to the exhaustion of their attention, to reduce the participation of motor systems prompting the non-motor-related cognitive system.

The agents do two distinct operations in 3 Blocks:

Body Scanning (Somatic Attention): Participants are asked to do a body scan and to bring their attention on the breath to several locations in the body (feet to head) while mindfully noticing sensations such as warmth or pressure of the seat, with the suggestion not to move or imagine moving.

·   Spatial Navigation (Visuospatial Control): Participants engage in a mental “Home Tour.” They’re as if they’re strolling in their home viewing the placements of furniture. This stimulates the visuospatial system without involving the motor system. 

 
Implementation of the PETTLEP Framework

The MI session is based on the PETTLEP model (Physical, Environment, Task, Timing, Learning, Emotion, and Perspective), which increases the ecological validity of the activities visualized:

·     P – Physical (Dynamic and Sensory Priming): during the imagery tasks, participants are not entirely passive. The target object (sensory priming) will be in their hands while they are holding it to help reconstruct the body schema.

· E – Environment Contextual Fidelity): The intervention takes place in a hospital room using the same table, chair, and target object (cup) from the assessment, providing the contextual cues for memory.

·   T – Task (Functional and Selective Constraints): The task is to “reach without compensationTwo distinctive techniques are presented: 

. Smoothness: Have a pretend the cup is filled with water (to get the brain the precedence of to the precision/flow rather than speed).

Dissociation: "Pretend your back is attached to the chair" (Like to mentally separate arm movement from trunk movement). 

· T – Time (Temporality): the participants are requested to think that they are moving at that time. Mental Chronometry is verified that the imagined time is within 75% of the physical time duration (±25%), this prevents cognitive errors such as "fast-forwarding".

·     L – Learning (Error-Based Calibration): The protocol is not repetitive but reactive. Switching back and forth between 1st-person video observation (master model) then physical trials (actual performance), the practitioner repeatedly tested the “prediction” with the “output,” in effect, to motor learning.

·     E – Emotion (Confidence and Relaxation): Verbal instructions stress “ease of movement”, “flow,” and “lightness” to alleviate performance anxiety and avoid spasticity from escalating, which is frequently caused by anxiety.

·     P – Perspective (Internal / Kinesthetic): Subjects are also explicitly instructed that an Internal Perspective (i.e., sense of looking out one's own eyes) rather than an External Perspective (i.e., sense of looking at oneself on a movie screen) should be adopted, because internal imagery has been found to be more potent in enhancing corticospinal excitability.

 

Functional Relevance of the Targeted Task: Reach-to-Grasp

Instead of focusing on single muscle contractions, this study is concerned with the Reach-to-Grasp (RTG) movement, modeled as “reaching for a cup to drink.” The following three reasons justify the selection of this movement as the principal movement:

·     Ecological Validity : Naturalistic settings of the application) The RTG is the basic mover of independence in Activities of Daily Living (ADL) mainly related to the self-feeding and -watering. The Reach and grasping of an object contributes far more to what a stroke survivor can do with their quality of life than that of a few individual muscle strength measures here and there.

· The Transport Phase (The Reach & The Trunk): Shoulder flexion and elbow extension are distance-related components. Forward leaning Trunk Compensation and Shoulder Girdle Elevation are in fact a very a very common compensatory mechanism in this phase of post-stroke patients. To treat this phase, the "Glued Back" constraint is introduced as it attempts to recover to real limb range-of-motion (ROM) not compensatory motion, a motion pattern that can be numerically expressed in OpenCap through ay quantifiable measure ('Trunk Displacement' and '” Shoulder Girdle Elevation” variables).

· The Manipulation Phase (Grasp & Smoothness): Grasping is a two-handed operation: wrist extension and hand aperture, that need to be executed in a synchronized manner to match the size and shape of the object. Adding the 'Full Cup' constraint (fiction of liquid) introduces a significant constraint on the smoothness and precision of movement. This was to practice exactly motor control and coordination instead of raw pressure by forcing the nervous system to slow down the "velocity peaks" (sharpness). 


Statistical Analysis:

All analysis will be conducted with IBM SPSS Statistics for Mac, version 24.0 (IBM Corp., Armok, New York, USA). Descriptive statistics: To describe the sample of participants and the outcome variables descriptive statistics will be reported: means and (SD) for normally distributed continuous variables; medians and interquartile ranges (IQR) for non-normally distributed or ordinal variables. The normality of distribution for each continuous variable will be evaluated by the Shapiro–Wilk test.

Primary and Secondary Outcome Analysis:

Parametric Analysis: The investigation of treatment effects for continuous variables that satisfy the normality assumption (such as the Kinematic parameters and BBT) will be performed through a 2 x 2 Mixed-Model Analysis of Variance (ANOVA). The model includes “Time” (Pre-intervention vs. Post-intervention) as the within-subject factor and “Group” (Experimental vs. Control) as the between-subject factor. The primary analyses will focus on the Group × Time interaction effect to determine if there was a significantly greater improvement in the experimental group compared with the control group.

Non-Parametric Analysis: Should the continuous data be found to be significantly non-normal and non-transformable, or for ordinal data (i.e., VAS for pain, and MIQ-3), non-parametric methods will be applied. Between-groups differences will be tested with the Mann–Whitney U Test, while within-group changes will be assessed with the Wilcoxon Signed-Rank Test.

Correlations Subjective vividness of imagery (MIQ-3 scores) and the amount of kinematic facilitation (Δ scores of MS and TD) will be correlated with each other using Pearson’s (normal distribution) or Spearman’s (non-normal distribution) to verify whether higher imagery ability can predict the best motor outcome performance. 

Effect Size: Effect size will be calculated to express the size of the effect of the intervention: partial eta squared (ηp2) for the ANOVA results, and Cohen’s d or the rank-biserial correlation (r = Z / √N) for two-by-two comparisons. The level of statistical significance for all analyses will be set at p < 0.05.

Handling Missing Data: In order to preserve randomization and reduce bias in the estimate of effect, an ITT analysis will be rigorously performed. No data will be deleted (no pairwise deletion) instead they will be treated by statistical imputation (e.g. Last Observation Carried Forward [LOCF] or Linear Mixed Models) in order to have all the randomized subjects in the final analysis.




BAP Support Request: None















Resource List :

1.   World Stroke Organization (WSO). Global Stroke Fact Sheet 2022. Geneva: World Stroke Organization; 2022.

2.   Facciorusso S, Guanziroli E, Brambilla C, Spina S, Giraud M, Molinari Tosatti L, et al. Muscle synergies in upper limb stroke rehabilitation: a scoping review. Eur J Phys Rehabil Med. 2024 Oct;60(5):767-792.

3.   Schwarz A, Bhagubai MMC, Nies SHG, Held JPO, Veltink PH, Buurke JH, Luft AR. Characterization of stroke-related upper limb motor impairments across various upper limb activities by use of kinematic core set measures. J Neuroeng Rehabil. 2022 Jan 12;19(1):2.

4.   Guerra ZF, Lucchetti AL, Lucchetti G. Motor Imagery Training After Stroke: A Systematic Review. J Neurol Phys Ther. 2017;41(4):205-214.

5.   Lakshminarayanan K, Shahbazi M, Janouch C, Ladda AM. Editorial: Recent advancements in motor imagery. Front Neurol. 2023;14:1248023.

6.   Kim JH, Lee BH. The Effect of Action Observation Combined with Motor Imagery Training on Upper Extremity Function and Corticospinal Excitability in Stroke Patients: A Randomized Controlled Trial. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022;19(19):12048.

7.   Holmes PS, Collins DJ. The PETTLEP Approach to Motor Imagery: A Functional Equivalence Model for Sport Psychologists. J Appl Sport Psychol. 2001;13(1):60–83.

8.   Uhlrich SD, Falisse A, Kidziński Ł, Muccini J, Ko M, Chaudhari AS, et al. OpenCap: 3D human movement dynamics from smartphone videos. PLOS Comput Biol. 2023;19(10):e1011462.

9.   Mathiowetz V, Volland G, Kashman N, Weber K. Adult norms for the Box and Block Test of manual dexterity. Am J Occup Ther. 1985;39(6):318-326.

10. Caires TA, Fernandes LFRM, Patrizzi LJ, de Almeida Oliveira R, de Souza LAPS. Immediate effect of mental practice with and without mirror therapy on muscle activation in hemiparetic stroke patients. J Bodyw Mov Ther. 2017;21(4):1024-1027.

11. Bijur PE, Silver W, Gallagher EJ. Reliability of the visual analog scale for measurement of acute pain. Acad Emerg Med. 2001;8(12):1153–1157.

12. Williams SE, Cumming J, Ntoumanis N, Nordin-Bates SM, Ramsey R, Hall C. Further validation and development of the Movement Imagery Questionnaire-3 (MIQ-3). Psychol Sport Exerc. 2012;13(3):307–314.

13. Uğur Y, Coşkun H, Şenyurt AY. The Movement Imagery Questionnaire-3: Reliability and Validity Study on Turkish Sample. Spormetre Beden Eğitimi ve Spor Bilimleri Dergisi. 2021;19(4):145-156.




Anabilim Dalı Kurul Karar Tarihi (Department Board Decision Date):
☒Bu çalışma için etik kurul onayına gerek vardır. (Ethics committee approval is required for this study.)

☐Bu çalışma için etik kurul onayına gerek yoktur. (Ethics committee approval is not required for this study.)





Öğrenci Adı Soyadı, İmza (Student’s Name Surname Signature)


Tez Danışmanının Adı Soyadı
İmza

(Thesis’s Advisor Name Surname Signature)

Anabilim Dalı Başkanı
Adı Soyadı, İmza
(Head of the Department’s Name Surname Signature)

Ekler (Attachments) :
Etik kurul kararı (Ethics committee decision)
Kurum veya ilgililerden alınan izin yazıları (Permission letters received from the institution or the relevant persons)
